Implementation of action.getUserSettings (#27608)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/action/getusersettings/index.md

---
title: action.getUserSettings()
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/action/getUserSettings
page-type: webextension-api-function
browser-compat: webextensions.api.action.getUserSettings
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

Gets the user-specified settings for the browser action.

> **Note:** This API is available in Manifest V3 or higher.

This is an asynchronous function that returns a [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise).

## Syntax

```js-nolint

> let gettingUserSettings = await browser.action.getUserSettings()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let userSettings = await browser.action.getUserSettings();
```

The "gettingXXX" convention is strange, but used to refer to a Promise. In this case, we have a concrete return value.

```

### Parameters

This function takes no parameters.

### Return value

A [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that fulfills with an object with these properties:

- `userSettings`

  - : An object containing the user-specified settings for the browser action with these properties:

    - `isOnToolbar` {{optional_inline}}

>       - : `boolean`. Whether the user has pinned the browser action's icon to the browser's toolbar.

Reviewer: Could you also add an extra sentence to clarify that the value being true doesn't necessarily imply that it's visible?

- some popup windows don't show an action button
- small windows don't have enough space to show a button
- Firefox-specific: like Greg mentioned, the button may be placed in an area that is not always visible. See `default_area` at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/action

Author: @Rob--W I'm wondering whether this is the right place to explain the pinned behavior of the action button. I am thinking it make more sense to update https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/user_interface/Browser_action and add a link?

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

Author: @Rob--W after looking into the idea of updating the user interface article, the differences between Firefox, Chrome, and Safari are such that I don't think it's a small project. Therefore updated this with some generic language, which is hopefully OK, and will raise a separate issue with regard to the UI section content.

>       - : `boolean`. Whether the browser action's icon is visible on the browser window's top-level toolbar (i.e., whether the extension has been 'pinned' by the user).

Reviewer 2: Hmm...Not sure this description is totally accurate. I don't have a suggestion for what it should say exactly, but can offer you some notes on how this property works:

- isOnToolbar communicates the user's intent, not necessarily whether the action button is visible or not. For example, a user can pin the action icon, then resize the browser window to be so small that the widget overflows back into the extensions panel and therefore stops being visible. I believe this is the correct behavior. Firefox and Chromium are identical in this regard.   
- Firefox in particular has multiple toolbars where the user may place the widget. The action widget may be placed in the area where tabs are located (`tabstrip`), in the area where the address bar and navigation buttons are located (`navbar`), or in the area where bookmarks are located (`personaltoolbar`). If a user places the action widget in the personaltoolbar, and the personaltoolbar is configured to only show on new tabs, the action widget will be invisible most of the time. Nonetheless, `isOnToolbar` will be `true`.

Author: Thanks, @gregorypappas. So, arguably this property is poorly named as what it's telling you whether the extension's action icon has been pinned to the toolbar, not whether it's visible or "on" for toolbas. `isPinnedToToolbar` might have been a better name. Updating the text.

Reviewer 2: > This property is poorly named 

Definitely.

> `isPinnedToToolbar` might have been a better name. 

Agreed. Unfortunately we have to stick with the current name for compat reasons.

>       - : `boolean`. Whether the user has pinned the action's icon to the chrome. This setting does not indicate whether the action icon is visible in the chrome. The icon's visibility depends on the size of the browser window and layout of the chrome.

Reviewer 2: The use of the term chrome here is correct, but will this potentially confuse readers? Do most people know that chrome refers to the browser UI? I will defer to @Rob--W on this

Reviewer: Let's use "browser's toolbar" rather than "chrome". They're both slightly vague, but "toolbar" is not that ambiguous and already part of the API name.

Author: ```suggestion
      - : `boolean`. Whether the user has pinned the action's icon to the browser UI. This setting does not indicate whether the action icon is visible. The icon's visibility depends on the size of the browser window and the layout of the browser UI.
```

## Examples

This code logs a message indicating whether the action is pinned or not:

```js

> function gotSettings(settings) {
>   if (settings.isOnToolbar) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function gotSettings(userSettings) {
  if (userSettings.isOnToolbar) {
```

Using the same names as the documentation for clarity.

    console.log("Action is pinned to toolbar.");
  } else {
    console.log("Action is not pinned to toolbar.");
  }
}

let gettingUserSettings = browser.action.getUserSettings();
gettingUserSettings.then(gotSettings);
```

{{WebExtExamples}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

> > **Note:** This API is based on Chromium's [`chrome.action`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-getTitle) API. This documentation is derived from [`browser_action.json`](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/chrome/common/extensions/api/browser_action.json) in the Chromium code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This API is based on Chromium's [`chrome.action`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-getUserSettings) API.
```

1. browserAction doesn't have this method.
2. Link should point to getUserSettings.
